<!-- Output copied to clipboard! -->



## Meeting information - 2021-05-26

*   Time: 11AM EDT
*   Recording: [youtube.chipsalliance.org](https://youtube.chipsalliance.org)

## Attendees

*   Henry Cook
*   Michael Gielda
*   Rob Mains
*   Brian Warner

Quorum: 2/3 TSC members present, quorum reached


## Agenda / Minutes

Please add agenda items by opening a PR prior to the meeting.

1. Welcome
2. Review recent email votes
    1. Verible was added as a graduated project (2/2 votes). Henner Zeller is the 3rd TSC member
3. Review applications for sandbox
    2. Espresso: [https://github.com/chipsalliance/tsc/pull/38](https://github.com/chipsalliance/tsc/pull/38) 
        1. Some questions over non-Apache licenses
        2. Need to do some digging to understand the will of the original authors.
    3. Sandbox stage is appropriate for projects which have expressed the will to join:
        3. Gem5 (UM/UCD/gem5.org) - BSD 3-clause
        4. sv-tests (Antmicro/Google) - ISC
        5. MAGICAL (UTA) - BSD 3-clause
        6. ALIGN (Intel) - BSD 3-clause
4. Review applications for graduated
    4. Surelog-UHDM: [https://github.com/chipsalliance/tsc/pull/38](https://github.com/chipsalliance/tsc/pull/38) 
        7. Vote passed! (2/3 votes)
    5. Applications we need to create:
        8. OpenFASoC (UM)
            1. over time, merge full FASOC
        9. SWeRV (WDC) (1 or multiple projects?)
            2. Michael to reach out to Srini @ WD
        10. RISC-V DV (Google)
        11. AiB (Intel)
        12. OmniXtend (WDC)
        13. Rocket Chip (SiFive/Berkeley)
        14. Chisel (SiFive/Berkeley)
5. Discussion of TSC repo structure
6. Transferring projects to chips GitHub
